# <application Jupyterlab>

## Description

This multi-stage image contains both R and Python interpreters with AI/ML related packages. This image inherits from the python38-ai and r-base images, and is ultimately 

### Usage: R Packages

#### broom
Summarizes key information about statistical objects in tidy tibbles. This makes it easy to report results, create plots and consistently work with large numbers of models at once. Broom provides three verbs that each provide different types of information about a model. tidy() summarizes information about model components such as coefficients of a regression. glance() reports information about an entire model, such as goodness of fit measures like AIC and BIC. augment() adds information about individual observations to a dataset, such as fitted values or influence measures.

#### C50
C5.0 decision trees and rule-based models for pattern recognition that extend the work of Quinlan (1993, ISBN:1-55860-238-0)

#### cli
A suite of tools to build attractive command line interfaces ('CLIs'), from semantic elements: headings, lists, alerts, paragraphs, etc. Supports custom themes via a 'CSS'-like language. It also contains a number of lower level 'CLI' elements: rules, boxes, trees, and 'Unicode' symbols with 'ASCII' alternatives. It support ANSI colors and text styles as well.

#### devtools
Collection of package development tools.

#### DT
Data objects in R can be rendered as HTML tables using the JavaScript library 'DataTables' (typically via R Markdown or Shiny). The 'DataTables' library has been included in this R package. The package name 'DT' is an abbreviation of 'DataTables'.

#### ECharts2Shiny
Embed interactive charts to their Shiny applications. These charts will be generated by ECharts library developed by Baidu. Current version supports line chart, bar chart, pie chart, scatter plot, gauge, word cloud, radar chart, tree map, and heat map.

#### feather
Read and write feather files, a lightweight binary columnar data store designed for maximum speed.

#### flexdashboard
Format for converting an R Markdown document to a grid oriented dashboard. The dashboard flexibly adapts the size of it's components to the containing web page.

#### flextable
Create pretty tables for 'HTML', 'PDF', 'Microsoft Word' and 'Microsoft PowerPoint' documents from 'R Markdown'. Functions are provided to let users create tables, modify and format their content. It also extends package 'officer' that does not contain any feature for customized tabular reporting.

#### forcats
Helpers for reordering factor levels (including moving specified levels to front, ordering by first appearance, reversing, and randomly shuffling), and tools for modifying factor levels (including collapsing rare levels into other, 'anonymising', and manually 'recoding').

#### foreign
Reading and writing data stored by some versions of 'Epi Info', 'Minitab', 'S', 'SAS', 'SPSS', 'Stata', 'Systat', 'Weka', and for reading and writing some 'dBase' files.

#### ggiraph
Create interactive 'ggplot2' graphics using 'htmlwidgets'.

#### gt
Build display tables from tabular data with an easy-to-use set of functions. With its progressive approach, we can construct display tables with a cohesive set of table parts. Table values can be formatted using any of the included formatting functions. Footnotes and cell styles can be precisely added through a location targeting system. The way in which 'gt' handles things for you means that you don't often have to worry about the fine details.

#### highcharter
A wrapper for the 'Highcharts' library including shortcut functions to plot R objects. 'Highcharts' is a charting library offering numerous chart types with a simple configuration syntax.

#### htmlwidgets
A framework for creating HTML widgets that render in various contexts including the R console, 'R Markdown' documents, and 'Shiny' web applications.

#### httr
Useful tools for working with HTTP organised by HTTP verbs (GET(), POST(), etc). Configuration functions make it easy to control additional request components (authenticate(), add_headers() and so on).

#### kableExtra
Build complex HTML or 'LaTeX' tables using 'kable()' from 'knitr' and the piping syntax from 'magrittr'. Function 'kable()' is a light weight table generator coming from 'knitr'. This package simplifies the way to manipulate the HTML or 'LaTeX' codes generated by 'kable()' and allows users to construct complex tables and customize styles using a readable syntax.

#### kernlab
Kernel-based machine learning methods for classification, regression, clustering, novelty detection, quantile regression and dimensionality reduction. Among other methods 'kernlab' includes Support Vector Machines, Spectral Clustering, Kernel PCA, Gaussian Processes and a QP solver.

#### kknn
Weighted k-Nearest Neighbors for Classification, Regression and Clustering.

#### knitr
Provides a general-purpose tool for dynamic report generation in R using Literate Programming techniques.

#### lattice
A powerful and elegant high-level data visualization system inspired by Trellis graphics, with an emphasis on multivariate data. Lattice is sufficient for typical graphics needs, and is also flexible enough to handle most nonstandard requirements. See ?Lattice for an introduction.

#### leaflet
Create and customize interactive maps using the 'Leaflet' JavaScript library and the 'htmlwidgets' package. These maps can be used directly from the R console, from 'RStudio', in Shiny applications and R Markdown documents.

#### lubridate
Functions to work with date-times and time-spans: fast and user friendly parsing of date-time data, extraction and updating of components of a date-time (years, months, days, hours, minutes, and seconds), algebraic manipulation on date-time and time-span objects. The 'lubridate' package has a consistent and memorable syntax that makes working with dates easy and fun. Parts of the 'CCTZ' source code, released under the Apache 2.0 License, are included in this package.

#### magrittr
Provides a mechanism for chaining commands with a new forward-pipe operator, %>%. This operator will forward a value, or the result of an expression, into the next function call/expression. There is flexible support for the type of right-hand side expressions. For more information, see package vignette. To quote Rene Magritte, "Ceci n'est pas un pipe."

#### Matrix
A rich hierarchy of matrix classes, including triangular, symmetric, and diagonal matrices, both dense and sparse and with pattern, logical and numeric entries. Numerous methods for and operations on these matrices, using 'LAPACK' and 'SuiteSparse' libraries.

#### mlbench
A collection of artificial and real-world machine learning benchmark problems, including, e.g., several data sets from the UCI repository.

#### nlme
Fit and compare Gaussian linear and nonlinear mixed-effects models.

#### nnet
Software for feed-forward neural networks with a single hidden layer, and for multinomial log-linear models.

#### openxlsx
Simplifies the creation of Excel .xlsx files by providing a high level interface to writing, styling and editing worksheets. Through the use of 'Rcpp', read/write times are comparable to the 'xlsx' and 'XLConnect' packages with the added benefit of removing the dependency on Java.

#### packrat
Manage the R packages your project depends on in an isolated, portable, and reproducible way.

#### parsnip
A common interface is provided to allow users to specify a model without having to remember the different argument names across different functions or computational engines (e.g. 'R', 'Spark', 'Stan', etc).

#### plotly
Create interactive web graphics from 'ggplot2' graphs and/or a custom interface to the (MIT-licensed) JavaScript library 'plotly.js' inspired by the grammar of graphics.

#### plotROC
Most ROC curve plots obscure the cutoff values and inhibit interpretation and comparison of multiple curves. This attempts to address those shortcomings by providing plotting and interactive tools. Functions are provided to generate an interactive ROC curve plot for web use, and print versions. A Shiny application implementing the functions is also included.

#### plumber
Gives the ability to automatically generate and serve an HTTP API from R functions using the annotations in the R documentation around your functions.

#### randomForest
Classification and regression based on a forest of trees using random inputs, based on Breiman (2001)

#### RCurl
A wrapper for 'libcurl'. Provides functions to allow one to compose general HTTP requests and provides convenient functions to fetch URIs, get & post forms, etc. and process the results returned by the Web server. This provides a great deal of control over the HTTP/FTP/... connection and the form of the request while providing a higher-level interface than is available just using R socket connections. Additionally, the underlying implementation is robust and extensive, supporting FTP/FTPS/TFTP (uploads and downloads), SSL/HTTPS, telnet, dict, ldap, and also supports cookies, redirects, authentication, etc.

#### readr
The goal of 'readr' is to provide a fast and friendly way to read rectangular data (like 'csv', 'tsv', and 'fwf'). It is designed to flexibly parse many types of data found in the wild, while still cleanly failing when data unexpectedly changes.

#### readxl
Import excel files into R. Supports '.xls' via the embedded 'libxls' C library and '.xlsx' via the embedded 'RapidXML' C++ library. Works on Windows, Mac and Linux without external dependencies.

#### reticulate
Interface to 'Python' modules, classes, and functions. When calling into 'Python', R data types are automatically converted to their equivalent 'Python' types. When values are returned from 'Python' to R they are converted back to R types. 

#### rgdal
Provides bindings to the 'Geospatial' Data Abstraction Library ('GDAL') (>= 1.11.4) and access to projection/transformation operations from the 'PROJ' library. Use is made of classes defined in the 'sp' package. Raster and vector map data can be imported into R, and raster and vector 'sp' objects exported. The 'GDAL' and 'PROJ' libraries are external to the package, and, when installing the package from source, must be correctly installed first; it is important that 'GDAL' < 3 be matched with 'PROJ' < 6. From 'rgdal' 1.5-8, installed with to 'GDAL' >=3, 'PROJ' >=6 and 'sp' >= 1.4, coordinate reference systems use 'WKT2_2019' strings, not 'PROJ' strings. 'Windows' and 'macOS' binaries (including 'GDAL', 'PROJ' and their dependencies) are provided on 'CRAN'.

#### RJDBC
The RJDBC package is an implementation of R's DBI interface using JDBC as a back-end. This allows R to connect to any DBMS that has a JDBC driver.

#### rmarkdown
Convert R Markdown documents into a variety of formats.

#### roxygen2
Generate your Rd documentation, 'NAMESPACE' file, and collation field using specially formatted comments. Writing documentation in-line with code makes it easier to keep your documentation up-to-date as your requirements change. 'Roxygen2' is inspired by the 'Doxygen' system for C++.

#### rvest
Wrappers around the 'xml2' and 'httr' packages to make it easy to download, then manipulate, HTML and XML.

#### scales
Graphical scales map data to aesthetics, and provide methods for automatically determining breaks and labels for axes and legends.

#### shiny
Makes it incredibly easy to build interactive web applications with R. Automatic "reactive" binding between inputs and outputs and extensive prebuilt widgets make it possible to build beautiful, responsive, and powerful applications with minimal effort.

#### shinydashboard
Create dashboards with 'Shiny'. This package provides a theme on top of 'Shiny', making it easy to create attractive dashboards.

#### shinyWidgets
Collection of custom input controls and user interface components for 'Shiny' applications. Give your applications a unique and colorful style!

#### sparklyr
R interface to Apache Spark, a fast and general engine for big data processing. This package supports connecting to local and remote Apache Spark clusters, provides a 'dplyr' compatible back-end, and provides an interface to Spark's built-in machine learning algorithms.

#### stringr
A consistent, simple and easy to use set of wrappers around the fantastic 'stringi' package. All function and argument names (and positions) are consistent, all functions deal with "NA"'s and zero length vectors in the same way, and the output from one function is easy to feed into the input of another.

#### testthat
Software testing is important, but, in part because it is frustrating and boring, many of us avoid it. 'testthat' is a testing framework for R that is easy to learn and use, and integrates with your existing 'workflow'.

#### tidymodels
The tidy modeling "verse" is a collection of packages for modeling and statistical analysis that share the underlying design philosophy, grammar, and data structures of the tidyverse.

#### tidytext
Using tidy data principles can make many text mining tasks easier, more effective, and consistent with tools already in wide use. Much of the infrastructure needed for text mining with tidy data frames already exists in packages like 'dplyr', 'broom', 'tidyr', and 'ggplot2'. In this package, we provide functions and supporting data sets to allow conversion of text to and from tidy formats, and to switch seamlessly between tidy tools and existing text mining packages.

#### tidyverse
The 'tidyverse' is a set of packages that work in harmony because they share common data representations and 'API' design. This package is designed to make it easy to install and load multiple 'tidyverse' packages in a single step. Learn more about the 'tidyverse' at <https://www.tidyverse.org>.

#### timetk
Easy visualization, wrangling, and feature engineering of time series data for forecasting and machine learning prediction. Consolidates and extends time series functionality from packages including 'dplyr', 'stats', 'xts', 'forecast', 'slider', 'padr', 'recipes', and 'rsample'.

#### xgboost
Extreme Gradient Boosting, which is an efficient implementation of the gradient boosting framework from Chen & Guestrin (2016). This package is its R interface. The package includes efficient linear model solver and tree learning algorithms. The package can automatically do parallel computation on a single machine which could be more than 10 times faster than existing gradient boosting packages. It supports various objective functions, including regression, classification and ranking. The package is made to be extensible, so that users are also allowed to define their own objectives easily.

#### xpm
X Package Manager for Microsoft Windows


### Usage: Python Packages

#### plotly
Built on top of plotly.js, plotly.py is a high-level, declarative charting library. plotly.js ships with over 30 chart types, including scientific charts, 3D graphs, statistical charts, SVG maps, financial charts, and more.
- import plotly

#### pandas
A Python package that provides fast, flexible, and expressive data structures designed to make working with structured (tabular, multidimensional, potentially heterogeneous) and time series data both easy and intuitive.
- import pandas

#### matplotlib
A comprehensive library for creating static, animated, and interactive visualizations in Python. Produces publication-quality figures in a variety of hardcopy formats and interactive environments across platforms.
- import matplot

#### seaborn
A library for making statistical graphics in Python. It is built on top of matplotlib and closely integrated with pandas data structures.
- import seaborn

#### numba
Can compile a large subset of numerically-focused Python, including many NumPy functions. Additionally, Numba has support for automatic parallelization of loops, generation of GPU-accelerated code, and creation of ufuncs and C callbacks.
- import numba

#### numpy
Besides its obvious scientific uses, NumPy can also be used as an efficient multi-dimensional container of generic data. Arbitrary data-types can be defined. This allows NumPy to seamlessly and speedily integrate with a wide variety of databases.
- import numpy

#### scipy
An open-source software for mathematics, science, and engineering. The SciPy library depends on NumPy, which provides convenient and fast N-dimensional array manipulation. The SciPy library is built to work with NumPy arrays, and provides many user-friendly and efficient numerical routines such as routines for numerical integration and optimization. 
- import scipy

#### scikit-learn
Plotting capabilities. A Python module for machine learning built on top of SciPy and is distributed under the 3-Clause BSD license.
- import sklearn

#### tqdm
Instantly make your loops show a smart progress meter - just wrap any iterable with tqdm(iterable), and you’re done!
- import tqdm

#### urllib3
A powerful, user-friendly HTTP client for Python. Much of the Python ecosystem already uses urllib3 and you should too. urllib3 brings many critical features that are missing from the Python standard libraries
- import urllib3

#### requests
Allows you to send HTTP/1.1 requests extremely easily. There’s no need to manually add query strings to your URLs, or to form-encode your PUT & POST data — but nowadays, just use the json method!
- import requests

#### beautifulsoup4
A library that makes it easy to scrape information from web pages. It sits atop an HTML or XML parser, providing Pythonic idioms for iterating, searching, and modifying the parse tree.
- from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

#### wordcloud
A little word cloud generator in Python
- from wordcloud import WordCloud

#### statsmodels
A Python package that provides a complement to scipy for s
- import statsmodels

#### prophet
A procedure for forecasting time series data based on an additive model where non-linear trends are fit with yearly, weekly, and daily seasonality, plus holiday effects. It works best with time series that have strong seasonal effects and several seasons of historical data. Prophet is robust to missing data and shifts in the trend, and typically handles outliers well.
- import prophet 

#### django
A high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design. Thanks for checking it out.
- import django

#### flask
A lightweight WSGI web application framework. It is designed to make getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex applications.
- import flask

<!-- 
A README.md is required.  It should include:
    a. helpful information like instructions on launching/running the container.
    b. a list of recommended resource requirements for running container:
        1) Min/max cpu --desired state
        2) Min/max memory --desired state
        3) Storage min/max/limits --Allow us to scale accordingly and limit apps from requesting terra/pentabytes of storage
        4) How many storage volumes the application needs
        5) Max number of containers 
-->
